# Chapter 10

<!-- SOURCE: _archive/exports/go-squad-2025-12-07T17_10_50.txt — clean export of the first edition, paragraph structure intact, ZERO PDF-extraction artifacts. Supersedes first_edition/ (epub-derived) as the MEASUREMENT GROUND TRUTH. Content identical (32/40 verbatim sentence match); only the damage differs. Quarry, not edit-of-record. -->

That same night.
"Get out of the car! Now!" the officer demanded loudly.
His partner also drew his weapon and pointed it into the back of the minivan where the child was.
“You seeing this?!” Gloom Girl radioed.
"Confirmed, Gloom Girl," Ruth replied. "Do not engage. Maintain visual surveillance and monitor the situation."
The driver slowly opened the door.
“Hands! Show me your hands!” the officer demanded.
“Mommy!” the child screamed.
“Please, officer, that’s my six-year-old, please don’t hurt us,” the driver pleaded, raising her hands.
“Step out of the vehicle!” the officer shouted. “Slowly!”
When she had her feet on the road, the officer grabbed her arm and forcefully pulled her toward the ground, laying her out on her stomach.
“What the hell?!” Gloom Girl was heard.
“Stand down, Gloomy,” Ruth repeated as calmly as she could.
The officer on the passenger side suddenly used his flashlight to bust open the passenger side door. The child screamed even louder as the mother on the ground, who had a police officer kneeling on her back, begged through tears to not hurt her child. The passenger side officer slid open the door and had his gun trained on the child. He reached with his free hand to unbuckle the car seat and then pulled the child out violently.
“What did we do? What is this about?!” the mother yelled. “Why are you doing this?”
The passenger side officer put the child on the floor and kicked the child's knee pit to make them drop. He then applied a set of handcuffs.
“That’s it,” Gloom Girl said before the audio cut.
“Gloom Girl!” Ruth barked into the radio. “Stand down! Come in!”
“Damn it. I’m going in,” Battlea announced, pulling down her mask as she stepped up onto the ledge and dropped down the face of the building onto an elevated platform that the window cleaners left two stories down. She landed with a thud and a loud clang that drew the attention of the officers. She immediately did a safety roll off the edge, grasping the platform to hang down to soften a drop onto a ledge on the wall and then turned to land on the street.
Gloom Girl ripped off the GoPro and clipped it to her chest. As she sprinted up from behind the officer handcuffing the child, she pulled out her mask and yanked it down over her head. When she reached him, he was distracted by Battlea’s diversion, so Gloom Girl roundhouse kicked the handgun out of his hand with her right, followed the motion to plant that foot on the ground and spun to follow with a sidekick with her left leg to the officer’s knees, the way he did to the child but with much more force.
The officer on the mother couldn’t see what was occurring on the other side of the minivan but turned to see what the commotion was, allowing enough time for Battlea to close the ground she needed to land a flying double side kick, sending the cop brutally into the open driver side all the way through to the passenger seat.
A thud could be heard on the passenger side from the officer’s impact as the van rocked on its sides, making the child flinch while Gloom Girl bent to elbow strike the ribs, crumpling him down, then reached up to hold onto his wrist. She raised her leg above his head and locked the back of his neck under her knee, then jumped with her other leg to wrap under around his arm. Like a pendulum, she used her body weight to swing him to the ground. Landing on her back with the cop, face down, locked in an arm bar, he yelped in pain as she applied firm pressure with the leverage she created.
Ruth breathed a sigh of relief as she saw with her binoculars that the two takedowns were fast and before backup was requested. Battlea helped the mother up to her feet and then swung around to the sidewalk as Gloom Girl attached the handcuffs the cop was holding onto his wrist. Battlea helped strap the other cuff behind his back and then opened the passenger door, causing the unconscious cop to tumble out from the passenger seat.
In the distance, Ruth heard the whop-whop of a helicopter getting louder and louder. Looking up towards the sound, she saw a police helicopter in the distance heading their way. It couldn’t have been for them, she assumed but kept her eyes on it as it distinctly looked like it was heading straight for them. She didn’t want to risk being wrong.
“Bail, bail, bail,” she repeated on the radio for the two on the street to hear. “Helo inbound, could be for us. Scatter!”
Gloom Girl smiled and waved at the little girl after she helped her back into her car seat. The minivan started off down the road. Battlea nudged Gloom Girl, urging her to run and they sprinted down the alleyway.
A spotlight from the helicopter shattered the dark of the alley they were in, revealing them as clear as day. “This is the police!” a voice through a megaphone demanded. “Stop where you are!”
As they reached the end of the alleyway, Battlea called out, “Divide and conquer?”
“Yeah!” Gloom Girl agreed and split into opposite directions, Battlea going east.
Meanwhile, Ruth flitted from rooftop to rooftop to try to keep up and not get spotted by the helicopter. She looked up and saw that the helicopter turned westbound.
Her radio blared Battlea’s voice, “Nightingale, Nightingale! The helo turned west and is on Gloom Girl’s six. Do you copy?”
“Copy, Battlea,” Ruth responded. “I’m in pursuit. Hang tight, Gloomy!”
Her performance was affected before, they were right and she knew it immediately when they called her out. Now, she was laser-focused in. Her best freerunning always came to her when she wasn’t thinking and was reacting to the topography, when she trusted her memory and instincts. At times, she even surprised herself after a particularly daring maneuver but only well after she was home, usually while showering off the night’s patrol. It was also whenever a teammate needed help when she found that extra gear for her motor.
Gloom Girl was almost balletic in her movements but speed wasn’t her strongest attribute. If she had any chance of losing a helicopter, it was by finding cover and maneuvering tight spaces. Ruth knew if she followed the helicopter, it would just lead her to Gloom Girl but too late, after they reached her. She needed to anticipate where Gloom Girl would go.
“I’ve got bogeys! They’ve sicced dogs on me!” Battlea reported through the comms.
Ruth stopped in her tracks. She suddenly had a choice to make. She could double back and try to draw off Battlea’s tail onto her and hope Gloom Girl finds somewhere to hide as she suspected she would be able to, or leave Battlea on her own, hope for the best and continue to find Gloom Girl.
"Nightingale to Night Knight, come in Night Knight," she barked into her handheld.
"Go for Night Knight!" he cried through the radio.
“Are you okay?”
“Ask me in a few minutes! I got ambushed by the fuzz. I’m high tailin’ it right now!” he replied. It sounded like he was running.
“Where’s Crimson?” she asked.
“On my way to Battlea,” Crimson cut into the frequency, sounding relaxed.
“What, are you taking a taxi? You don’t sound like you’re in a rush,” Ruth commented.
“Something like that,” Crimson Sable said as he prepared to leap off the train he was riding on top of.
“Everyone on comms,” Ruth said. “Elvis has left the building, I repeat, Elvis has left the building!” she said before clipping her radio and continuing to where she thought Gloom Girl would be.
“Elvis has left the building,” was their code phrase to separate, lay low, and wait for an all clear transmission. They never had to use it before because this level of police attention was brand new. They weren’t even aware anyone, let alone the police, knew of their existence.
The helicopter spotlight locked onto Gloom Girl and it seemed like no matter what she did, they knew where she was. She knew of a construction site that she could duck into and find cover but it was across one of the rivers and she was almost certain the bridge would be a bottle neck for them to cut her off. She was running out of breath, her legs were beginning to feel like jelly, and her hand grip strength fatigued. She decided to risk it figuring that if she didn’t try for it, she was done for anyway.
The bridge was in sight but she knew it meant a dead sprint, something she didn’t have in her body at the moment. Seeing scaffolding on a building face, she turned a quick corner and disappeared under the awning, holding on to the bars to stay off the sidewalk. She breathed hard as she grabbed a hydration pack from her utility, draining it down her throat and then dropping it to the ground. The helicopter rotors echoed in the awning she was hiding, hovering like a hawk waiting for the mouse to make its move.
It was only appropriate that the helicopter chose her, she considered as she slowed her heart rate. She was, after all, the one that disobeyed the order from Nightingale to stand down. But how could she stand down? Every time they had seen something like this in the past while on patrol, their general rule was to just record it with their cameras and not intervene. Let YouTube do the rest in exposing the police. But a child was being arrested. Was that cop even going to be able to apply adult sized cuffs onto a six-year-old?
After a few more breaths trying to psych herself up, she descended to the sidewalk and bolted with everything she had left. The helicopter was caught off guard but quickly found her running on the bridge. Controlling her breathing as much as she could, she pushed herself up the incline and reached the top, stopping when she saw the line of police cars cutting her off at the pass. She turned around to see another set of police cars coming to a stop behind her.
“It’s over!” a loud voice said through a police megaphone. “Get down on your knees and put your hands on your head.”
She felt her heart pounding twice for every second and her lungs burning as she gasped for air. She laced her hands on her head but to expand her lungs for air and wandered to the edge of the bridge.
“Get down! Right where you are!” the voice demanded.
She looked over the edge and saw the water below, wondering if she could survive the fall. Even if she did, swimming was almost harder than sprinting for miles as she had just done and they’d just be waiting for her on the shore. As her breathing and heart rate slowed, Gloom Girl climbed up the railing and balanced on the ledge.
“Don’t do it! Get down now!” the megaphone blared.
She looked to her left at the police and held up a rude gesture. She did a swan dive off the bridge. Ruth was watching from a building near the bridge through a pair of binoculars.
"No!" she screamed when she saw Gloom Girl jump.
