# Chapter 9

<!-- SOURCE: _archive/exports/go-squad-2025-12-07T17_10_50.txt — clean export of the first edition, paragraph structure intact, ZERO PDF-extraction artifacts. Supersedes first_edition/ (epub-derived) as the MEASUREMENT GROUND TRUTH. Content identical (32/40 verbatim sentence match); only the damage differs. Quarry, not edit-of-record. -->

Two nights after the warehouse.
Caledonia.
A city nestled in between twin rivers and a latitudinal location that hits the sweet spot of all the seasons. Goldilocks would have chosen Caledonia after tasting Canada and Mexico.
“Well, good evening and welcome to Carl Tucker Tonight. Presumptive Presidential nominee, Harding Kain, as you may have heard, fired back at the media today in Caledonia.”
Like most cities, it is stricken with a severe case of multiple personality syndrome. During the day, a bustling and busy economy keep the ants marching to their jobs, hobbies and other interests. It has decent theatre and even a few well regarded restaurants. Tourists come for the mild climate, the friendly atmosphere and the famed hospitality.
“Mr. Kain has been forthright about the burglary and subsequent explosion in his own personal warehouse business in Caledonia Harbor, praising the police for their response and shunning any accusation that he was involved in any criminal behavior. ‘Don’t believe the liberal press,’ he said in his press conference earlier today.”
At night, a near police state emerges as local law enforcement, led by Police Chief John Whitford, cracks down on the criminal element harder than any other city in the country. The denizens shutter their windows and doors to protect against, not just the supposed rising crime rates in the city, but also from drawing the ire of the gestapo tactics of the police.
“The only crime I see Mr. Kain committing is being a hard working American, burning the midnight oil at one of his businesses that he keeps a personal and close eye on, something, I believe, we can expect when . . . I mean, if he should win the election come November.”
The truth was, actual crimes, not just the behavior and actions deemed illegal by the local municipality, like muggings and assault, because of the police state, were usually only perpetrated by those who had ins with the so-called guardians of the peace and public. Firas saw that even before he ever decided to patrol the city from the rooftops. The news would usually only report what suited the narrative that the city wanted to maintain; that it was the poor and minorities committing the crimes that necessitated such aggressive tactics. When Firas walked the streets, careful to avoid the cops after the curfew that was in place, more unofficially than a publicly announced time to avoid any legal dispute, he observed that it was the police who were looting pharmacies to then flood the neighborhood with drugs, who were shooting folks before any warning and then claiming they felt their lives threatened, or even outright ignoring calls for emergency assistance if they weren’t from the right people. The ones who paid the cops for “protection”. From the criminals, of course.
“He asks the big questions that matter, like questions of whether statues are next? George Washington? Thomas Jefferson? It’s not a joke. Suddenly, our founding fathers are considered evil slave-owners by the fanatics on the left. It means that Jefferson must be purged from public praise forever. Let me be frank, up until a hundred and fifty years ago, slavery was the norm, it had been for thousands of years before that. Sadly.”
This was the implicit understanding that was established through the deliberate public relations campaign that had been a standard practice for over a hundred years, not just in Caledonia, as it has been the model of law enforcement since the days of slavery, but especially here. Police Chief John Whitford outlasted many a sitting mayor and had each of them in his corner for every policy and practice his police force administered, promising “law and order,” which really just meant over-policing the poor neighborhoods and turning a blind eye from white collar crimes.
“This does seem like a turning point, not just on the right but on the left. These events of the last two days, where even a potential sitting President of the United States can’t safely operate in this city without thugs with Uzis and drive by shooters terrorizing their business . . .”
Ruth closed the app on her phone and tucked it in her utility belt. Nightly, especially during their patrols, Ruth ruminated on this, the bigotry, the intolerance, knowing that even though it felt like she ultimately wanted to help the police do their job in protecting and serving the citizens, they found themselves at odds with what they’ve seen the police doing in the course of their duties. The Go Squad had always resisted tangling with the police but if they weren’t wearing a badge, much of what they’d seen them do wouldn’t give them pause to act.
Tonight was different. Ruth’s mind was elsewhere, to the night of the warehouse, of when they mysteriously survived what was all but certain doom. She tried to compare it with all the training that Firas put the Go Squad through, from the first days at the Parkour Academy where most people were there for one-off lessons, usually on a date or bachelor party activity, but also a select few others, like Ruth and the other Go Squad members who showed talent and a proclivity. The more they returned, the more challenging the day’s lessons among the simulated building structures and scaffolding in the converted warehouse space became. Eventually, when Firas folded the individuals he scouted for his team together to have group training sessions, the team would learn to move as one and without any second thoughts. They became so intimate and aware of each other that Firas was eventually able to train the team to run their routines in complete darkness: swinging on bars, scaling and traversing walls, lifting and tossing one another to reach grips, and the whole while, making their footfalls as inaudible as possible. For months, they trained in these peculiar and challenging ways, eventually incorporating hand-to-hand combat lessons into the mix: krav maga and judo. Firas’s grand design was then revealed, what would be both their power and safety net in their dealings with those who might commit injustice against Caledonians. He presented everyone with a set of nightvision and thermal goggles and a utility belt that contained among other things smoke grenades. Training in the dark with complete trust among the group allowed them to ease nearly effortlessly into the vision obstructing mist to perform their various maneuvers that Firas choreographed for them and of which they all knew like the back of their hands.
None of these things, these grueling, intensive and dangerous things, prepped her for what she was grappling with since the impossible occurred a couple nights ago against Harding Kain.
Two snaps of a finger close to her face caught her attention.
“Gale?” Battlea asked, waving a hand in her face after Ruth turned to her. Her black Lycra ski mask was folded up on her forehead and her annoyed expression was clear. “Can you hear me? Are you with us?”
“Yeah,” Ruth replied, sighing. “Sorry. What were you saying?”
Battlea rolled her eyes and repeated, “I said, I don’t think we’re going to catch any fish here. Night Knight just radioed in and said he’s heard there’s police band chatter about activity at the Junctions.”
Ruth nodded her head in understanding and looked at Gloom Girl, standing by the ledge of the roof they were on, peering through a set of binoculars at the streets.
“Gloomy?” Ruth called. Gloom Girl lowered her binocs and turned to Ruth. “What do you think? Should we make the trip and displace out of here?”
“Couldn’t hurt,” Gloom Girl replied. “It’s been real quiet for a while now,”
Ruth shrugged. “Let’s do it, then,” she agreed.
They didn’t fly high over buildings and get mistaken for birds or planes. After all, they were just normal people dressed in light black tactical gear. They jumped, bounced, rolled and dove. But when a person in a high enough building who happened to be looking out their window at night saw their movement, they would swear they weren’t running; they were gliding across the rooftops.
This was their training, the work Firas spent his whole life honing for this purpose. If the Go Squad members were mistaken to have any kind of powers, it was near perfect topographic knowledge and recall of the Caledonia cityscape; every landing, fire escape, awning, trellis, even missing bricks in walls that gave enough of a usable hold to bound from. If the Go Squad were dropped in any other city, they’d be seriously hampered in their traversing abilities for at least a few weeks until they learned the area well enough to jump off a building’s edge with full confidence of what they needed to do to not roll an ankle or fall to their deaths.
Battlea won the unspoken race that the Go Squad always engaged in whenever they did paired or grouped patrols. Gloom Girl finished second and Nightingale struggled in at third. Battlea and Gloom Girl exchanged looks with one another as this wasn’t typical. Nightingale was the best of them, even more graceful than Firas who taught her. She was the standard they all strove for.
“You alright, Gale?” Battlea asked, watching Ruth catching her breath.
“Yeah,” Ruth said, gulping down a 0.5 liter hydration pack she produced from her utility belt. “Why?”
“You know you don’t have to do this right?” Battlea offered.
“Do what?” Ruth asked, wiping the water from her chin.
“We know you’re worried about Firas,” Gloom Girl said.
“Of course I am,” Ruth replied, matter-of-factly. “We all are.”
“Yeah, obviously,” Battlea said, raising her mask. “But it’s clearly affecting you.”
“How?” Ruth defended.
“You’ve been in la-la land all night and were sloppy in a lot of the passes on the way over here,” Battlea pointed out, placing a finger against her palm with each point.
Ruth took a deep breath and raised her own mask. “You’re right. I am distracted,” she admitted. “And, yeah, Firas’ injury is weighing on me but I’ve really been more messed up about what happened at the warehouse.”
Battlea and Gloom Girl avoided any and all eye contact. Instead, Battlea grimaced and Gloom Girl squashed an imaginary bug under her shoe as she held her hands behind her.
“Right,” Battlea said. “That.”
“I mean,” Ruth continued. “What part of that makes sense to any of us? You? Gloom Girl?”
Gloom Girl raised her hands in innocence, saying, “I’ve just upped my medication. I can’t think about it or I get panic attacks.”
A pang of sadness over that admission struck Ruth. “I’m sorry, Gloomy.”
Battlea put her hand on Gloom Girl’s shoulder. “Yeah, kid. We’re here for you. We’re all messed up about it.”
“I feel like we all just wanted to accept it so we don’t have to think about,” Ruth noted and Gloom Girl slowly nodded her head. “And I think it’s because it’s easier to do that than try to figure out what the heck happened. I mean . . . Kain had us dead to rights. We were clustered and he fired that RPG at us. I’m not making that up right?” They silently agreed. “So . . . thoughts? Any explanations? I actually considered the smoke bombs were maybe defective and had some kind of hallucinatory side effects? Seems far-fetched but it’s the best I can come up with.”
The three of them stood around each other silently.
“I’m going street-level. I need space,” Gloom Girl said, breaking away and pulling her mask off when she turned away from them so they couldn’t see her face, stuffing it into a pocket of her utility belt.
“Gloomy . . .” Battlea called fruitlessly as Gloom Girl hopped over the roof edge onto the fire escape below and out of sight. “Great,” Battlea uttered, turning to face Ruth as she gathered her mask on her forehead. “Did you have to do that with her around? You just heard her say she upped her meds. You know she’s sensitive.”
Ruth was angry with herself, knowing Battlea was right. “Lea,” Ruth exhaled as she dropped her head back and closing her eyes. “I’m going nuts. I could use whatever meds she’s on myself.”
“Yeah, but what good is that going to do you? You know Glooms just avoids dealing with stuff head-on. We’re different,” Battlea assessed. “At least you’re not alone. If you didn’t think to call us for backup before you went in that night and then tried to explain everything that happened to us, we’d probably clip your wings and keep you grounded for a while. Maybe keep you cozy with a strait jacket.”
Ruth walked over to the ledge to look at the street level, watching Gloom Girl lightly jog to a spot in an alley way in the dark. “I wish I can just let it go. But honestly, the weirdest part is Ahdia.”
Battlea narrowed her eyebrows and came to stand next to Ruth. “Firas’ sister?”
“Yeah. I saw her get shot. There was blood on her clothes. Then I got knocked out and when I came to . . .” Ruth shook her head. “She was just gone. In the fire.”
“You did say the round went through the crate. Maybe it slowed the bullet enough that she could move.”
Ruth shook her head. “I thought of that. But the blood . . . and then how did we all get out? I know I got my head knocked pretty hard but . . .” Ruth groaned. “None of it makes any sense.”
Battlea didn’t have a response. The truth was that she felt just as bewildered as Ruth.
“Nightingale,” the radio crackled, Gloom Girl’s voice coming through. “Police activity, eastbound heading our way.”
They peered in the direction Gloom Girl reported and saw the siren lights of a squad car. It was apparently pulling over a minivan.
“You think the soccer moms are at it again?” Battlea joked.
Ruth squeezed the call button on her hand radio. “Put eyes on, Gloomy,” Ruth ordered.
“Acknowledged,” Gloom Girl said. She pulled out a GoPro camera that was on a headband, activated it and placed it on her head.
Ruth knew these supposedly routine stops were twice as likely to go wrong at night in Caledonia than if it were during the middle of the day. She scanned the area for all the ways she could make it to street level in the fastest ways possible if she needed and then watched the two police officers approach the minivan from both sides, as was normal police procedure.
“They both unclipped their holsters,” Battlea noted.
She was right; the cops both rested their hands on their pistols. The driver side officer knocked on the window and the driver opened it. The officer shined his flashlight into the person’s face, blinding them.
Ruth squeezed her radio and said, “Gloomy, you got audio?”
“Standby,” she replied and reached into her utility to pull out a collapsed audio device. She opened the fan and connected the sound amplifier into the hand radio with an AUX cable in another pouch on her belt. She squeezed the radio and announced, “Go for audio.”
Ruth and Battlea listened to the tinny audio broadcast through.
“Where you heading?”
“Home.”
“Where from?”
“Out for dinner. It’s my daughter’s birthday.”
“Yeah, right. Step out of the vehicle.”
“Why?”
“I said, step out of the car.”
The officer on the passenger side door attempted to slide open the minivan door.
“I want to know why! I have the right to know what crime I’ve committed.”
“Right now, it’s obstruction if you don’t do what I say.”
“No! I didn’t do nothing wrong! I don’t have to get out of the car.”
The officer then drew his weapon and pointed it at the driver. The frightened cry of a child could be heard, both from the radio and on the street.
