# Chapter 3

<!-- SOURCE: _archive/exports/go-squad-2025-12-07T17_10_50.txt — clean export of the first edition, paragraph structure intact, ZERO PDF-extraction artifacts. Supersedes first_edition/ (epub-derived) as the MEASUREMENT GROUND TRUTH. Content identical (32/40 verbatim sentence match); only the damage differs. Quarry, not edit-of-record. -->

The alarm rang and she heaved her arm over her half asleep head to the nightstand to silence it. She purposefully picked the most annoying ringtone available on the phone because she admitted that waking up was one of the hardest things for her to accomplish throughout the course of a given day, most days. An annoying, obnoxious sound that was supposed to be the plan to anger her awake. In hindsight everyday, it was a terrible idea to wake up pissed off all the time but she was committed now, years deep in a sleep experiment that was yielding interesting findings: waking up was just as hard but now she was cantankerous about it, too.
She didn’t have a job to go to but sleeping in past a certain time of the morning, usually the hours in the double digits or the ones with “PM” after them, felt more decadent and overindulgent than the actual penthouse she lived in, courtesy of an inheritance from her late parents, along with the massive insurance payout that came with their estate. Work was something she’d heard about people doing out there, in the world, a good long distance away from the ivory tower she resided in midtown Caledonia.
Rarely did she find herself actually out in that world, where people had schedules to keep, and lives they seemingly cared about doing stuff with. One of those occasions was later tonight, drawn out of her hermit hole, albeit an inordinately well provisioned, luxuriously furnished and nostalgically designed hermit hole, by her brother and his girlfriend Ruth. They - well, Ruth more accurately - got the two of them to finally agree to a night out together, one that had been perpetually pushed back for ages, with flimsy excuses from Ahdia of having been too busy with non-existent events being the usual cause for rescheduling.
Of course, everyone knew, Ahdia's plans consisted of smoking, drinking, video games, endless hours of TV and ordering in. That was Ahdia's world ever since their parents disappeared after a trip they took to Montana, over ten years ago. If they were around, it was possible that Ahdia would have continued pursuing a career in engineering, following in her mother’s footsteps. They would likely have pushed her and encouraged her the way they had her whole life before they were proclaimed dead by the insurance company, who dropped a fat check on her and her younger brother as some kind of balm for the searing pain their absence left with them. She couldn’t speak for Firas but for her, it was an inadequate remedy.
It seemed to Ahdia that Firas, was much better at the whole “moving on” thing. Eventually, after a period of mourning and self-loathing not unlike her own time with the endeavor, he took his inheritance and did something with himself. He became a small business owner, operating a school that taught freerunning, or “parkour” as the kids like to call it. She didn’t get it but it was great that he took his passion and ran with it, no pun intended. Even if what he loved seemed trivial to her, and it certainly did to her parents when they found out that Firas was running around rooftops with his spare time, at least he got off his butt and did something. Anything, unlike her.
When she arrived at the restaurant, Ruth was waiting but Firas was nowhere in sight. That was unexpected because in recent years, he had become this responsible, serious, disciplined dude that would have made their father proud.
“Hi, Ahdia!” Ruth greeted her warmly with a hug.
“Hi,” Ahdia said back, only meeting her energy by about half. Ahdia hated hugs but she was game to participate if people seemed like they were coming in hot with one. They were always so listless, wet noodle, floppy embraces, both parties always left feeling a little bit weird about it after. It was the customary thing to do between family and their partners so she played along.
Ahdia had known Ruth for years, the length of time she and Firas had been dating. Another accomplished go-getter, Ruth was an ER doctor, about as high-stakes and stressful as Ahdia could imagine. When she thought about it, it felt like being around a completely different species, different brains and observed behaviors. Their natural habitats were certainly on opposite sides of the world; Ruth of the brainy, persistent, stalwart side, Ahdia on the side where they hit the snooze button more times than they’d care to admit.
“Where’s Firas?” Ahdia asked.
“Running late,” Ruth answered.
“They won’t seat us until we’re all here,” Ahdia remarked.
Ruth shrugged. “Tried his cell. Went to voicemail. Must be tied up?”
“That’s really unlike him, no? He’s usually very punctual and considerate? Like, annoyingly so,” Ahdia reflected.
Ruth chuckled softly, widening her smile, saying, “I wouldn’t say ‘annoying,’ but definitely those other things. I don’t know. I’m sure he’ll be around or call any minute now.”
They sat in the bar and had a drink, closing the tab assuming Firas would be showing up, running as usual, sweating as it was habitual, apologizing with some totally plausible excuse. After an hour passed, Ruth’s smile disappeared along with her drink, which didn’t stop her from absentmindedly stirring the ice with vigor while staring at the front door.
“Maybe the subway shut down and he’s stuck underground,” Ahdia reassured even though she was nervous herself.
“Maybe,” Ruth agreed, unconvinced.
Eventually they parted company and Ruth said she would check his apartment and let her know if she finds him there or not. Ahdia thanked her and headed back to her luxury perch brought to her by dead parents while thinking about her now missing brother.
It truly was weird that Firas was a no call, no show. She didn’t want to worry about it because the last time she worried about missing family members, she was punished with unlimited funds and the lap of luxury. If I end up with a yacht, I swear to God… she thought as the elevator doors opened. She got in, swiped her keycard against the sensor and reached to push the button way up top above all those other lowly buttons.
There was blood on it.
Instinctively, she checked her own fingers, thinking she had cut herself unknowingly and left that mark but that made no sense when she gave it a second more of thought. She pushed the lobby button on her way out and she hadn’t been out of her apartment to necessitate pushing her own floor in days. She pushed it and anxiously awaited as the elevator began its ascent.
Only those with a keycard could effectively choose her floor and the only two people who had access were herself and… her brother. Firas. It had to be him. Halfway up and she realized that he must be in serious trouble, bleeding and if he came to her place, something he’d always been reluctant to do, it must have been for a good reason. Was he on the run? He’s definitely injured, that much was certain.
The door was slightly ajar and she pushed her way through.
"Firas?!" she yelled. "Firas? Are you here? Where are you?"
She frantically ran through her unnecessarily large abode—great time to appreciate the square footage, Ahdia—looking into every room she passed, calling Firas' name. When she found him on the bathroom floor, gripping his midsection like he was literally holding his guts in, her brain did that thing where it cycled through every movie death scene she'd ever watched. This is fine. Totally fine. Just like that Grey's Anatomy episode. Except real. And my brother.
“Hey, sis,” he weakly uttered. “Long time.”
“Firas?” she exclaimed as she rushed to him, kneeling in front of him. “What…”
Under any other circumstance where she would find a mortally wounded family member in her bathroom, she would have grabbed the towel to put pressure on the wound, called 911, maybe even recall a first aid course she had taken years ago to be a camp counselor as a teen. What froze her instincts was seeing that Firas was dressed in black tactical gear, a ski mask apparently tossed off by him strewn on the floor. There were questions that superseded any inner prompting to help her baby brother.
“What are you wearing?” she finally managed to ask.
“Can we…” Firas let out as he breathed heavily, wincing. “… talk about that later? Can you please get Ruth?”
“Ruth? No, baby bro, we need to get you to the hospital,” she protested.
“No!” he yelled, followed by a distressed groan. “No… Ruth. No hospital.”
“Why not? You’re seriously injured. What happened?” Ahdia cried, speaking hysterically.
“Ruth. Please… no hospital…” Firas expressed, faltering into unconsciousness.
His grip on his midsection loosened as he slumped in his already reclined position. That natural tendency towards an injured family member finally kicked in and Ahdia grabbed the towel off the rack, pressed it against her brother’s stomach with one hand and with the other, tried to wake him up.
“Firas? Firas! Firas, wake up!” she urged. He did not respond. “Oh god, oh god, oh god!”
She reached into her pocket to pull out her phone to dial for an ambulance but hesitated. Okay, dying brother says no hospital. In literally every crime show on USA Network at 2 AM, this is when you find out your family member is in witness protection or running a meth empire. Was Firas a criminal now? Did he owe money to someone? Was this some Breaking Bad situation where her engineer parents' legacy skipped her and went straight to pharmaceutical crime?
From what Ahdia knew of movies—and she knew a lot of movies—the only reason people who were injured and bleeding didn't want to go to the hospital was because they would have to report a gunshot wound and that would involve the authorities. But those characters were usually criminals and there was no way her little brother was that. He was a lot of things, a gym rat, a professional parkour athlete, a gentle soul, a strong-minded individual but definitely not a criminal.
It crossed her mind, though, that he was right about something. It had been a while since they last saw each other. She couldn’t remember the last time. It would have been sooner if she hadn’t dodged their invites on so many occasions. Months? Over a year? The days living with no responsibilities and scheduling concerns really blended the days into one another and she really couldn’t be sure. In that case, she reasoned, it was possible that things have changed for Firas and he was dabbling in crime.
No, that makes no sense, she conceded again. If he needed money, that might be one thing but the amount they were endowed with was almost impossible to exhaust if they tried. Was this a gunshot wound she was putting pressure on? She had no clue. Feeling that she was wasting valuable time, she pursed her lips and closed her eyes before dialing Ruth.
After a few rings, Ruth answered, "Hey, Ahdia, I just got to Firas' place and he's not here…"
"Firas is here, at my place and he's hurt! Badly!" Ahdia interrupted. "Please hurry here, he asked for you! He's bleeding really bad!"
#
Ruth arrived in fifteen minutes with a medical bag that looked like it cost more than Ahdia's couch. Probably did. Doctor money was real money.
She moved fast. Professional fast. The kind of fast you see in TV medical dramas where everyone knows exactly what they're doing and nobody hesitates. Ahdia tried to help by staying out of the way, which was harder than it sounded in her own apartment.
They'd moved Firas to the guest bedroom—less blood on expensive things, more space to work. Ruth had her gloves on, scissors cutting through his tactical gear like it was tissue paper, revealing the damage underneath.
Ahdia looked away. Tried to, anyway. Her eyes kept drifting back.
"Pressure here," Ruth instructed, guiding Ahdia's hands. "Don't let go."
Ahdia pressed. Felt warm blood seep between her fingers. This was nothing like Grey's Anatomy. Nobody was making quips or having relationship drama. It was just... quiet. Terrifying. Real.
Ruth worked methodically. Removing fragments—metal glinted in tweezers, tiny and mean-looking—dropping them into a bowl. Four pieces. Maybe five. Ahdia had lost count around the time she started feeling lightheaded.
"That's all of them," Ruth said, not looking up. "But the damage..."
She trailed off. Ahdia recognized that tone from TV medical dramas. That was the "this patient isn't going to make it" voice, usually followed by a dramatic pause and someone yelling "don't you die on me."
Ruth reached for her bag—not the fancy doctor bag, but a smaller case she'd brought separately. Metal, about the size of a jewelry box. Or a drug case. Ahdia's brain helpfully supplied: definitely drugs.
"What's that?"
"Something I've been working on." Ruth opened the case. Inside: vials of clear liquid, a syringe, some sort of small electronic thing that looked vaguely science-fictional. "Cellular regeneration therapy. CR-7."
Ahdia blinked. "You invented... what?"
"It accelerates cellular repair. For trauma patients." Ruth's hands moved fast, connecting the vial to the syringe, checking measurements. Very Breaking Bad, except less meth and more saving her brother's life. "Been developing it for three years. Published some early results, got laughed out of a conference. Dismissed as 'improvisation.'"
"Is it safe?"
Ruth's hands paused. Just for a second. "I've tested it on tissue cultures. Some animal models. Results were... promising."
"But not on people."
"Not on people."
They both looked at Firas. Pale. Barely breathing. Definitely dying if they didn't do something.
"He won't make it without this," Ruth said quietly. "Blood loss is too severe. Even with a transfusion, the damage is too extensive. His body's shutting down faster than it can repair."
Ahdia watched Ruth inject the clear liquid into Firas's IV line—when had she set up an IV line? Doctor things, apparently—and it looked like water. Probably wasn't water.
"What does it do? Like, actually?"
"If it works?" Ruth monitored the IV drip, adjusting the flow. "His cells repair faster than they break down. Tissue regeneration accelerated. Not by much—maybe double normal healing speed with what I have on hand. But double might be enough."
"And if it doesn't work?"
Ruth met her eyes. Professional mask cracking slightly. "Then I just experimented on my boyfriend without his consent and it didn't help."
They sat in silence. Firas's breathing stayed shallow but steady. The TV would have dramatic music here, Ahdia thought. Maybe that beeping sound that flatlines. But real life was just... quiet. Waiting.
"How long until we know?"
"Few hours. If his vitals stabilize by morning, it worked. If they don't..." Ruth didn't finish.
Ahdia nodded. Nothing to do but wait.
And try not to think about how her brother might die on her ridiculously expensive sheets while his girlfriend performed illegal medical experiments in her guest bedroom.
Thursday nights used to be so much simpler.
#
Somewhere around 4 AM, Ruth said Firas needed blood. His type. Which, conveniently, Ahdia shared. Perks of being siblings, she guessed.
Ruth set up the transfusion—more TV medical drama stuff, except Ahdia was actively involved this time, needle in her arm, watching her blood flow through a tube into her brother. Very weird. Zero out of ten, would not recommend as a bonding experience.
"How's he doing?" Ahdia asked after Ruth had taken what felt like all her blood but was probably just a pint. Maybe two. She wasn't great at estimating these things.
"Stable." Ruth checked his pulse again. She'd been checking it every twenty minutes for hours. "The treatment's working. Cellular repair is accelerated. Not as much as I'd hoped, but enough to keep him alive."
"That's good, right?"
"It's incredible." Ruth's voice had that weird mix of pride and terror. "It's also not nearly enough. At this rate, he'll be stable in a few days instead of dead in a few hours, but full recovery is going to take weeks. Maybe longer."
