# Chapter 6

<!-- SOURCE: _archive/exports/go-squad-2025-12-07T17_10_50.txt — clean export of the first edition, paragraph structure intact, ZERO PDF-extraction artifacts. Supersedes first_edition/ (epub-derived) as the MEASUREMENT GROUND TRUTH. Content identical (32/40 verbatim sentence match); only the damage differs. Quarry, not edit-of-record. -->

When Ahdia arrived at the warehouse, she approached the door to get in. Trying the handle, she found it was locked. She went to the bay doors to try it even though, if they were even open, she didn’t have the muscles to hoist up the door on her own.
It started raining. She felt vindicated, not seeing any criminal activity and definitely not four-dimensional objects. Still, she needed to be certain.
Remembering what Firas supposedly recounted, she decided that she needed to get on the roof. If she couldn’t get in the building, she would at least call it a night and be able to legitimately call shenanigans on Firas and Ruth if she at least got to peek in through the windows. The only windows on the building were lining the walls under the top tiered roof. She went to the left side of the warehouse, keeping her eyes open for any entrance or landing she could climb on to reach the top.
If her weird brother could do it, she figured how hard could it be? Not seeing anything on the right, she circled around to the back and then to the left side. It was sheer wall on both sides and she was miffed that she was starting to get impressed that Firas was actually able to somehow get on the roof with nothing apparent to climb on. She knew he thought he was a superhero but as far as she knew, his power was only that he jumped around on buildings. Since when could he fly to the tops of them in single bounds?
Maybe climbing to the top wasn’t her best option. She looked around for something to bash in the front door with. Searching the premises, she found an old broken piece of wood, part of a shipping crate most likely, and struggled to carry it to the front door. When she got there, she placed one end of it on the ground, leaning the other against her body as she took a moment to catch her breath, move the wet strands of hair out of her face and then hoisted it using both hands over her shoulder.
“Careful,” a voice from behind her startled. Ahdia’s heart jumped into her throat before she turned to see Ruth standing there, wearing a North Face windbreaker with her hood up. “You might get a splinter. You should really wear gloves when you’re out on patrol.”
Ahdia, realizing it was just Ruth, turned her attention back to the door, saying, “I’m not on patrol. Don’t be dumb. What are you doing here?”
“Really? Besides the dinner wear you’re sporting, out on a closed dock in the middle of the night, breaking and entering into a suspicious warehouse really gives off the wrong impression,” Ruth said glibly.
Trying to ignore her, Ahdia raised the plank in her hands a bit higher, getting ready to strike the door handle. “There it is. People making assumptions just because of the way I’m dressed,” Ahdia sneered. “Typical.”
“Before you do that . . .” Ruth quickly cut in before she struck the door. “You do that and the night’s over before it begins. That loud noise is going to draw all the wrong kinds of attention and if we’re lucky, we’ll be behind bars.”
Ahdia hesitated. “And if we’re not lucky?” she asked.
Ruth raised her eyebrows, pouted her lips and tilted her head down, her eyes looking to her right before she began walking away. Ahdia blinked the rain pouring down her head out of her eyes as she watched Ruth walk away. Shaking her head, she redetermined that breaking the door down really was the only way. She took a deep breath, gripped the plank and stretched her arms above her head as high as she could.
From somewhere above her, she heard a light banging against metal. She drew her attention to the direction and a moment later, saw Ruth leaping from the top of a stack of shipping containers onto the roof. Ahdia’s jaw dropped watching the majestic arc Ruth created, a stride that reminded her of a gazelle hopping along the African plains she saw once on Animal Planet. She dropped the plank next to her and ran to where she could get a better angle of the roof to spot Ruth.
She cupped the tops of her eyes to shield from the rain to see Ruth, standing with her hands in the pockets of her windbreaker and, if she knew any better, smugly smiling at her.
“How’d you do that?” Ahdia called to her.
“Easy when you know how,” Ruth called back.
Ahdia was pissed. She could plainly see how Ruth got to the top of the stack of shipping containers. Knowing how didn’t make it easier for her to climb on top of the first landing, a single unstacked shipping container next to a stack of two, next to a stack of three, next to a stack of four from where Ruth made her leap. Being fair, struggling onto the crate was made more difficult by the rain, and she used an improvisation of a garbage bin she tipped upside down to stand on to climb up.
Ruth knelt down, keeping an eye on Ahdia, amused at her fumbling attempts at each level. The stack of two, without the help of her garbage bin, was uncomfortable to witness as Ahdia came close to losing her grip once she jumped high enough to just grip the edge. At eight and a half feet, that was no easy trick and Ruth so admitted to herself that she was impressed, even though it took multiple attempts and Ahdia’s above average height and reach played to her advantage.
When Ahdia made it to the top, as Ruth suspected would happen, Ahdia hesitated after looking at how high up she was. The top of the roof she needed to land onto was a few feet below the plane Ahdia was on but the gap felt inordinately long, too long for human traversal.
“That’s impossible!” Ahdia protested.
“Clearly not!” Ruth said, standing, presenting herself where Ahdia proclaimed impossibility.
Ahdia swore under her breath. There was no way she was going to climb back down, something that she realized was probably almost as dangerous as falling from this height once she got onto the stack of three containers. She was pot-committed, just like the time Phil Hellmuth was in the World Series of Poker she saw on ESPN. The commentator said that it was a fallacy, she remembered, that you can always back out no matter how much you commit and often, that’s the best play, but in that moment, that felt like nonsense.
She moved as far back as she could on the ledge, about eight feet wide. Psyching herself by taking quick breaths, she darted forward before her nerves stopped her. Ruth’s eyes widened on Ahdia’s approach, taking her hands out of her pockets and bending her knees to prepare for however Ahdia was going to land; short or long. Ruth honestly didn’t think Ahdia had the courage to go through with it.
After four momentum building strides, she timed her leap when she got to the very edge as though she were bowling, thinking about the Professional Bowlers Association broadcasts she watched on ESPN2 while drinking Pabst Blue Ribbons. To the surprise of all parties present and witnessing, Ahdia cleared the gap by a good foot and landed safely . . . before tumbling forward to the ground anyway because her legs gave way to the anxiety of the event.
Ruth rushed to her to help her onto her feet, excited and happy for Ahdia’s success in not dying. “Nicely done!” she congratulated. “I’m really impressed! I didn’t think you had it in you!”
Ahdia barely registered any of what Ruth was saying, swallowing the urge to vomit. When she had a moment to adequately gather herself, she peered over the edge to see how high up she was. The darkness and rain made it look like an endless abyss, even though it was actually about 35 feet high. She was glad she hadn’t done this surveying of the gap beforehand because she also learned just then that she experienced slight vertigo from such height, even though she lived on the highest rise in Caledonia.
While Ahdia was marveling her own accomplishments, Ruth scouted the rooftop and saw the indication she was looking for. “Over here,” she said.
Ahdia broke away from her self-admiration and joined Ruth, who was pointing at a window frame with a clearly broken pane of glass.
“This must be where Firas broke through,” Ruth commented.
The windows were on an incline so it was reasoned that he was leaning too much of his body weight against it when it broke. They cautiously climbed in, another not-so-safe activity that Ruth made look easy, jumping gracefully feet first through and landing on the catwalk below. Remaining crouched, she inspected the chipped paint from the ricocheted bullets.
Ahdia kicked off the remaining glass shards along the bottom of the frame and found a safe enough surface to grip her hands on as she slowly, clumsily lowered herself down and let go to drop a few feet above the catwalk. Luckily, no mobsters or gang bangers were in sight but Ahdia had to admit, so far, everything corroborated Firas’s story. This was either something he really actually experienced or the elaboration of the prank was deeper than she could imagine. Until she saw the four-dimensional object for her own, she reminded herself to stay skeptical.
“That’s the room he went into,” Ruth deduced. “Let’s go the other way, down the stairs, to see what we see,” she said and headed in that direction.
Ahdia tried to ratchet up her awareness and wished she had spidey-senses, like Spider-Man does on Disney+, to detect danger before it occurred so she could avoid it. The only tingle she felt were the goosebumps on the back of her neck and on her arms.
They quietly made their way down the grated stairs, a slight “ting” with every step, and hid behind a set of crates near the stairwell.
“Let’s stay quiet and search the area,” Ruth suggested. “Stick together.”
They were half-crouched, stepping lightly and moving around towards the center, where they could see a box, possibly the one Firas described. It had an insignia ink-stamped on the wooden panels, a logo in the shape of a diamond and the word “TRIOMF” emblazoned below it. Ahdia’s anticipation was getting the better of her as she felt her heart beating in her eyes more and more with every step they took. When they reached the crate, Ruth looked nervously at Ahdia before she put her hands on the lid.
“Hold it!” they heard from the dark corner of the warehouse. They weren’t alone.
A man emerged, holding a handgun, trained on them, switching between the two of them repeatedly and closing in to where they were.
“Put your hands up!” he barked.
