# Chapter 7

<!-- SOURCE: _archive/exports/go-squad-2025-12-07T17_10_50.txt — clean export of the first edition, paragraph structure intact, ZERO PDF-extraction artifacts. Supersedes first_edition/ (epub-derived) as the MEASUREMENT GROUND TRUTH. Content identical (32/40 verbatim sentence match); only the damage differs. Quarry, not edit-of-record. -->

They slowly raised their hands. Ahdia started having the feeling that her brother wasn’t making things up after all but for some reason, she kept it in the back of her mind that this man could be one of their buddies, Ruth was leading her into the warehouse as part of the ploy and they weren’t in any danger at all. Until she saw a mystical object in which she could see all the sides of from one perspective, all of this was subject to disbelief. The thought at least helped assuage the panic-scream her brain was doing internally.
“Who are you? What are you doing here?” the man demanded.
He was built stockily, had a black blazer over a gray turtleneck, sporting a crewcut barely hiding his scalp. Ahdia wondered if guys like these came out of some evil henchman catalog that villains subscribed to.
“Evening, sir,” Ruth responded. “We were just out for a stroll and needed to get out of the rain, you know how it is.”
“Yeah, right,” he said, close enough to be able to smell his cologne, distinctively Fahrenheit by Christian Dior, definitely way too much.
He took out a hand radio from inside his coat and squawked, “I got two intruders here, in the warehouse.”
Wiseguy & Sonoma.
Ruth subtly looked at Ahdia who could only calm herself to notice that Ruth was trying to get her attention by coming up with dumb names of fake stores.
Amazon Prime Suspect.
When Ruth saw that Ahdia was paying attention, she motioned with her eyes to the box.
Blood, Bath, and Beyond.
Not knowing what exactly she meant, Ahdia’s panic intensified.
Sur la Tombstone.
Suddenly, while the man with the gun was slightly distracted by talking on his radio, Ruth moved quickly, slightly ducking out of the way of the line of fire the man was drawing, stepped in closer, turning her back against him with his arm above her right shoulder.
Crate and Shallow Burial.
Ahdia, hoping Ruth meant to duck and hide behind the crate, did so. She squeezed her knees against her chest and tightly shut her eyes.
Target.
In the very next moment, the man with the gun squeezed the trigger. Ruth immediately grabbed his arm and yanked it down over her right shoulder. A sickening crunch could be heard as the man’s elbow bent in an unnatural manner. He roared in pain before Ruth climbed up the man’s slightly bent knee by stepping on his thigh and wrapping her legs around his neck. She then landed two successive elbows down onto the top of his head, dazing him, followed by dropping her entire body weight back and down as hard as she could. Still gripping his neck with her thighs, she used the momentum to flip her quarry forward, headfirst onto the ground. He was unconscious on his back while Ruth laid on top of him with her knees by his ears.
Ruth knew since he radioed for backup, they had precious few seconds remaining before they were outnumbered. She called out for Ahdia as she got up and did a catpass over the crate and over Ahdia, where she ducked behind.
“Ahdia…” Ruth said weakly, seeing the bullet the thug fired went through the crate and hit Ahdia’s chest.
Already in shock, Ahdia looked up from staring at the blood on her hands to Ruth, whose concerned and defeated eyes met her own. “I’m… shot,” she said.
Then, footsteps could be heard stampeding into the warehouse. Ruth peeked over the crate to see a group of men, dressed similarly filing in through the open door front door.
“We gotta get out of here,” Ruth said hurriedly before looking at Ahdia, who was fading fast.
Ahdia looked up at the light that was shining on them, like a spotlight. It was somehow getting brighter as the edges of her vision were closing in darkness.
“Ahdia?!” Ruth echoed in Ahdia’s ears as she slumped over.
The last thing Ahdia saw before she passed out was Ruth being hit in the back of the head with the butt of a pistol.
“Ahdi,” her mother called.
“Mom?” Ahdia said, unsure where her mother’s voice was coming from.
They were back in their house in the suburbs of Caledonia, the one she was raised in from birth to when they disappeared. She was in the hallway from her bedroom to the kitchen.
“Ahdi, come wash up for dinner,” her mother’s voice said again.
She could smell the couscous dish, her mother’s own recipe with dried fruit, ready to be dipped into by the bagita that she baked earlier in the day. It had been so long since those aromas filled her nostrils.
Ahdia approached the kitchen to see her mother, as alive as she had remained in her memory, removing her apron as she saw Ahdia, giving her a warm smile.
Suddenly, Ahdia’s ears started ringing, louder and louder.
Her eyes fluttered open.
She heard footsteps and saw she was laying on a dusty floor in a vast and dimly lit room. Ruth was kneeling down, her arms tied behind her back. She was surrounded by men with guns, too many to count, some shrouded in the darkness where the light didn’t illuminate.
They had apparently left her on the ground, laying on her side, assuming she was dead.
“First we had a boy wonder bust through the roof and now we have two little birdies stuck in the rafters,” a man spoke.
He was pacing back and forth, unarmed and dressed differently than the others. He was not in shape like the men around them, evident by his rotund figure, with thickset rings adorning his stubby fists, a three-piece gray suit with a black dress shirt and the least convincing hair-hat she’d ever seen.
Harding Kain, in the flesh.
“Heard this was where the party was,” Ruth replied, unwavering in her snark.
“From who?” he demanded as he stepped to her, grabbing her face by the chin.
Ruth remained quiet.
Kain released and took one step away, suddenly turning and slapping Ruth with the back of his hand, embellished with heavy rings. Ruth yelped and spit blood but returned to give Kain a teasing smirk.
“The voters are going to want to know your stance on women’s issues, Harding,” she taunted. “My face is going to be hard to explain away to that particular demographic.”
“Oh, little bird,” Kain mused, walking to the edge of the ring of light. “What makes you think you’ll get the chance to show your face anywhere to anyone again?”
With his back turned to her, he walked up to one of his men who handed him a lead pipe about a yard long. He gently tested the weight against his hand and smirked, handing it back to the hired bruiser to take his blazer off. Handing the blazer to his human coat rack, he unbuttoned and rolled up his sleeves.
Ruth didn’t betray any emotions on her face but her eyes were windows into her fright and terror. Whatever this man said, he had the clout and influence to do it and more, get away with it. Turning around with the pipe in his hand, he was walking jauntily, twirling the pipe like an unskilled drum major towards Ruth who squirmed and struggled against her constraints.
Watching her writhe drew out a guttural laugh from his belly. “What’s the matter?” he chaffed. “Don’t worry, little bird, I’ll get you to sing.” With that, as if he were winding up a golf swing, he measured his stroke to her face and slowly raised the pipe above his head. Ruth saw fire in his eyes, blinded by a lust for violence. She closed her eyes, not wanting that to be the last thing she saw.
“What the…!” she heard and opened her eyes. The whole room was suddenly pitch black.
“No better time than here!” a voice, one she recognized, cried from the shadows.
She jumped to her feet and silent-ran in a direction she remembered there was a gap between men.
“No better time than now!” a chorus of shouting voices responded.
Slowly, flashlights blasted on from the men, one by one. Apparently, smoke grenades had detonated and the flashlight beams cut through like light sabers. Ruth, running blind, ran into what felt like a fleshy brick wall.
“Nightingale!” the wall greeted, holding her by both shoulders.
“Night Knight!” Ruth realized, nearly crying in relief. “Thank God you all made it in time. I was about to get brained!”
Night Knight turned her around and used a combat knife to cut her bindings. Gloom Girl was standing by him, obscured by smoke and shade. She handed a set of infrared vision goggles to Ruth. Ruth put them on and activated them.
It made everything she saw coated in blue but she was able to see heat signatures of all the warm bodies who were stumbling blind in the smoke. She could see heat signatures moving faster around other signatures, and she recognized their motion to be the Go Squad, Battlea and Crimson Sable, surging through the bodies with flying kicks, baton strikes and body momentum takedowns.
Ruth wiped the blood from her mouth and snickered, running back in the direction she came from.
In the cloud of smoke, with their training, all the unsuspecting blind bodies struggling in the kill zone became an amorphous freerunning track. In coordination, the group ran, jumped and pushed the muscle heads around, into each other and into practiced, harmonized movements and coordinated attacks.
The house lights turned back on; one of the thugs reached the breakers to switch them back. The Go Squad removed their infrared goggles, by then having dispatched of most of the guards, and only three men were left standing, surrounded.
One of the guards made a break to attack the nearest traceur, Gloom Girl, and found himself being flipped onto his back when, in one fluid motion, she placed her hands on his wrist and shoulder, turned around while stepping under his arm, pulling him towards her. Throwing him off balance over her squatting lower center of gravity, she used his momentum to lift him, a man with a hundred pounds on her, over herself. The ground knocked the wind out of him but she kicked his lights out for good measure.
The other two, watching a clearly smaller girl do that to their burly companion, were stunned long enough for Battlea to step behind them to smash their heads together.
The smoke cleared and The Go Squad were left standing amid a sea of incapacitation. Ruth, seeing that they had taken every one out, relaxed her tensed muscles, but noticed something.
“Where’s Kain?” she called out.
“Here!” he yelled from the catwalk above them, holding a rocket launcher.
Ruth was the first to see him and yelled, “Scatter!”
The Go Squad all turned to face him but he had already pulled the trigger.
