# Chapter 11

<!-- SOURCE: _archive/exports/go-squad-2025-12-07T17_10_50.txt — clean export of the first edition, paragraph structure intact, ZERO PDF-extraction artifacts. Supersedes first_edition/ (epub-derived) as the MEASUREMENT GROUND TRUTH. Content identical (32/40 verbatim sentence match); only the damage differs. Quarry, not edit-of-record. -->

That same night.
The helicopter decided to go after Gloom Girl in the shell game. A selfish part of her was relieved but the team-first mentality Battlea harbored knew she was faster than Gloom Girl. Gloom Girl was agile, downright bendy, but it would take pure speed to try and lose a helicopter on foot. Speed and creativity.
She was sprinting on street-level. The goal in her mind was to run to a spot where she knew she had a stash . . . a small duffel bag hidden in various points throughout the city that contained a baseball cap, overalls and a bomber coat. Firas’ idea and one that Battlea always thought was a bit on the paranoid side; when would they ever need to do a quick change? Well, here was a golden opportunity and she was glad that when she needed it, it was available . . . as long as she could get there without being seen.
She turned a corner and stopped dead in her tracks. A police blockade. For little old me, she thought. She turned 180 degrees and took a few steps before an identical impediment blocked the next block. In moments like these, as far as her training in Firas’ school went, there was always an out. A foothold or handhold that normal people don’t see. All it takes is one to get over.
She turned to her left and right, scanning for an escape—a hole in a wooden fence leading into a construction yard. That was it. She did a dead dash and leapt, jamming her foot in the hole the size of a can of coke and used the forward momentum she had and pushed herself up and over. She landed on an unexpected dirt hill.
Tumbling down, she didn’t panic and performed one safety roll after the other until she reached the bottom. Recovering smoothly from the last roll onto her feet, she continued sprinting into the darkness of underneath the concrete floor that was being suspended by girder support beams. Battlea felt the urge to chuckle, thinking about all the trouble the cops put themselves through to trap her, until she had to stop due to a sheer wall about twenty feet high. She was trapped.
Voices of excited men floated in from behind her, flashlights beaming from the entrance of the construction site. Battlea turned away from the direction but stayed near the wall in the cover of darkness.
As she was afraid of, the site dead-ended and she was literally cornered in the foundations built for what was intended to be a new skyscraper. She knew her only option was to fight her way out and that wasn’t going to last very long.
Seeing a group bustling their way into the underway she was in, she ducked behind a work bench and held her breath. She wondered what it would be like, getting arrested. She wondered if she should ditch her utility belt so when she was apprehended, she could claim she was just some crazy woman in the eyes of a judge and not a street vigilante. It would be a flimsy defense but plausible and that might be all the cards she had left to play in her hand.
A wave of cops canvassed the dark, gradually illuminating the whole area, like the tide flowing onto the coast. A police officer slowly advanced onto the work bench she was hiding under. Battlea reached over her head and grabbed a wrench that was laying on top. She heaved it as far as she could in the dark air over the line of cops and it clanged against a far support beam.
Everyone turned and faced their flashlights to the beam that rang out an unexpected sound. Seeing her chance, she bounded from her hiding spot to the nearest officer and swung around him using his body like a pole, finishing with a double kick to the officer next to him, sending that one flying back, while dragging the unsuspecting officer she was using as a sling to the ground. Landing next to him, she delivered an elbow to his face, connecting with a Plexiglas face mask that was attached to the helmet he had on. Still, a strong enough blow dazed him, giving her time to stand up to face whoever else might be next for her to attack.
The next nearest officer shouted, “Found her! She’s here! Open fire!”
Open fire? Seemed a bit excessive. That was her cue to dive towards the officer on the ground that she first kicked. She did a safety roll on top of his laid out body, turning him over on top of her. A few trigger-happy cops fired and hit their fellow officer in the bulletproof vest he was wearing that Battlea used as cover. She heard her human shield cry out in pain.
“Cease fire! Cease fire!” someone quickly yelled.
“Fire in the hole!” someone else yelled before popping a canister in his hand and rolling it towards her.
Recognizing it to be either tear gas or a stun grenade, she knew the timing from when the pin was pulled was up to six seconds and she hoped it wasn’t too late before she quickly rolled over onto her stomach, did a modified stationary catpass from prone and kicked back the rolling detonating device.
The second she did so, the officer who sent it dove out of the way. It flashed after a loud pop. A flashbang, she noted, judging by the sudden ringing in her ears. At least she wasn’t blinded she figured and hoped that maybe some of them were.
She laid back and did a kip-up to get on her feet. Scanning the environment, she registered about ten flashlights still blocking her way. These cops were intent on using lethal force. She’d go down fighting, she accepted. Getting arrested wasn’t an option.
A shot fired and buried itself into her body armor under the right clavicle bone. She fell down onto her back, sucking air after she felt it all knocked out of her. The pain was tremendous but her adrenaline allowed her to roll over and army crawl back towards the work bench. It was over, she knew.
A commotion could be heard and Battlea was surprised she made it all the way to the workbench, sitting and leaning on it to catch her breath. When she peeked around, she saw a cloud of smoke and a flurry of movement from what seemed to be a bow staff.
Crimson! she recognized. She reached into her utility belt to put on her infrared goggles and saw her teammate, Crimson Sable, fluidly disabling anyone he could get to, one by one, with elegant lines of successive strikes.
The smoke would clear soon and he’d be exposed, she knew. She pushed aside the choking pain in her chest and scrambled towards him.
“Sable!” she called, so that he wouldn’t mistakenly strike her. “Behind you!”
She landed a vicious left overhand, hopping to build momentum as though she were throwing a baseball to home from the outfield, on the soft part between the body armor and helmet on the neck of an officer wandering obliviously in the smoke directly behind Crimson.
“Thanks, chica,” he said, proceeding to plant what turned out to be a rebar staff on the ground to block an attempt by a cop to hit him with a swinging rifle butt to the midsection. Crimson executed a turning kick to the cops helmet and used the rebar to balance himself, reversing the kick for two immediately successive kicks, enough to take down his target.
“We gotta make waves!” Battlea yelled.
“Agreed,” Crimson replied dropping the rebar in a loud heavy clang as he knelt down, grabbed a flashbang from the cop he just felled, pulled the pin and threw it towards the remaining cops.
As the smoke cleared, only a few cops were left unharmed but confused as to what just happened, dazed from the stun grenade. The two of them were out of sight.
When they reached a rooftop of a nearby building, Battlea collapsed on a brick roof door vestibule. Crimson knelt in front of her, taking off his goggles and examined her to make sure she wasn’t badly wounded. No blood, which was good, but he knew from experience how much it still hurt to be shot in the armor.
“That’s going to be a nice bruise tomorrow,” he commented.
“Maybe if you’re nice to me, I’ll show it to you later,” she managed to crack.
“That a promise? Because if so, you have a deal, señorita,” he smiled. “I thought you said there were dogs.”
“Freeze!” a voice from the ledge of the building shouted. They were coming up from the fire escape.
“These guys won’t quit!” Crimson shouted, standing up between her and the cops.
One by one, the remaining group of cops in the SWAT team filed onto the roof, their semi-automatic weapons drawn on them with flashlights. Crimson held his hands up.
“Get on your knees!” he ordered.
Crimson didn’t move. He looked back and down at Battlea. They shared an understanding look; they’d go down fighting.
“I said get on your knees!” the cop ordered again, coming close enough to put the muzzle inches from Sable’s face.
Crimson Sable quickly pushed the muzzle with his right hand, moving it slightly to the left of his head as the officer reacted and fired. The loudness was expected even if it still rang in Crimson’s ears. Ignoring it the best he could, he threw an open hand quick jab at the officer’s throat, causing him to choke. From the ground, Battlea kicked the cop’s knee in a sickening crunch, crumpling him to the floor.
Crimson knew he needed to act fast to get to the others, but the other officers began pulling their triggers at him.
To the surprise of everyone, none of their weapons fired, allowing him the window to land a form perfect sidekick on the sternum of the nearest officer to him.
And again, to the surprise of everyone, including Crimson, the officer was kicked like a rag doll clear off the roof to the next building, apparently kicked so hard, he left behind his weapon and helmet.
Everyone froze, staring at the officer writhing in pain a block away, then turned their attention to Crimson to see if he was some sort of three-headed beast. Nope, just a normal looking dude in black tactical gear in a fighting stance, looking just as shocked as they did.
Someone finally snapped out of it and yelled, “Open fire! Open fire!”
That shook everyone awake. Sable jumped, rotating his hips to be horizontal in the air, landing a downward kick on the shoulder of an officer, leveling him into the ground in an impact crater. They kept pulling their triggers but none of their weapons fired.
Battlea shoulder charged an officer into another officer and they both violently crashed through the ledge, about ten yards away, falling onto the fire escape. Dumbfounded, she looked over at Crimson after he uppercut another SWAT cop ten feet straight up into the air. They looked at each other and both shrugged while in fighting stances and then looked at the remainder of the SWAT team left standing. They made a quick calculation and retreated down the fire escape, picking up their downed teammates to drag back with them.
“Crimson . . .” Battlea said, relaxing her stance and looking around at the damage they inflicted. “What the hell is going on?”
Crimson Sable followed the retreating police to the ledge and watched them urgently descend the stairs. He turned around with his hands up like Rocky and yelled, “I’m a freakin’ superhero!”
