Chapter 2 They didn’ t often allow their children to accompany them on their excavations. Normally , it would have been out of the question with the nature of their work. The various situations they would find themselves in, political sensitivities to maneuver , local customs that frowned upon the inclusion of children, and just school schedules and a sense of normalcy to uphold all precluded bringing the whole family on work trips. This one, though, was in the States and during the weekend. Mr. Faraz Bacchus and Mrs. Naima Bacchus, ancient art and antique specialists and collectors, were more likely to be gone for days, sometimes weeks at a time, usually in remote corners of the Earth after receiving a tip from researchers or their connections in the military about possible locations of rare treasures, “treasures” at least among the niche demographic of those enamored with these trinkets and chairs no one could sit in anymore. Ahdia and Firas were ecstatic to have the opportunity to tag along because for the first seven and five years of their lives, respectively , they were always left behind with a nanny or dropped off at a childcare in a military complex of which apparently their parents had connections to be able to do so. Neither had any personal military background to speak of so it was of mild curiosity to them how their parents were involved but, as with all things that were since birth, it was just the way things were. What was explained to them by their parents was that some of the travels they engaged in required more than the usual considerations of typical 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 11 globetrotters. Sometimes, to enter nations with frosty or hostile relations with the United States, it required a heavier authorization than simply receiving the necessary vaccinations or permissions from the embassy located stateside. They were heading for Glacial National Park in Montana. First they flew from their home in the Caledonian suburbs and then drove a rather large truck that the U.S. Army conveniently provided, very much presented, as though the military personnel were nothing more than a valet, to Faraz at the airport. The drive was long and this may have been tedious and cause for boredom and agitation for children their age but Firas and especially Ahdia were enthralled with the chance to talk to their mom and dad, who always had amazing and interesting things to tell them. Sometimes it was about the artifacts and antiques they found, where they came from and who was recorded to own them and other times, it was, oddly enough, about space. “So, when your mother and I found the battle axe in Cambodia,” Faraz recounted to his children as he drove. They were seated between Naima and himself in the bench seating of the truck, “The constellations were aligned in exactly the same way that the King’ s prophets recorded them when they hid away the supposed chosen one in the cave, along with the royal weapons…” “… and tea sets!” Naima added. “Yes, the royal weapons and the tea sets,” Faraz confirmed. “Well, a chosen one must have Maghrebi, too, right?” “What’ s a chosen one, papa?” Ahdia asked. “Ah, a beautiful question, my queen,” he replied. “Every thousand years, or longer , when the stars revealed the time and space continuum was reverberating across the cosmos…” 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 12 “Dear…” Naima chided. “Oh, they’re precocious!” he replied. “They know what I’m talking about, right my king and queen?” “Even astrophysicists with advanced degrees wouldn’ t know what you were talking about. Most of it are your father ’s own interpretations, my darlings,” she said. Firas and Ahdia smiled but did not betray any recognition of what was being said. They just loved listening to him, whether or not they fully understood what he was talking about. Naima chuckled and raised her eyebrows knowingly . “Alright, alright,” Faraz relented. “Let me think on it.” When they arrived at their destination, the sun had already set and so the only thing to do was to set up their tent, a campfire and prepare their dinner . "Alright, my king and queen," Faraz announced, clapping his hands together as he surveyed the clearing. "Your mother and I have a proposition for you both." Firas and Ahdia perked up, eyes bright with anticipation. It had been weeks since they'd spent real time with their parents. "A challenge," Naima said, her eyes twinkling. "Whoever can set up their sleeping area in the tent first gets to choose tomorrow's breakfast. And you know what that means." "Pancakes!" Firas shouted. "With chocolate chips!" Ahdia added. "But," Faraz held up a finger , "your mother and I will be timing you. And we're very discerning judges. Quality matters as much as speed." The children nodded eagerly , already eyeing the equipment bags. "On your marks," Naima said. "Get set... go!" 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 13 Firas and Ahdia scrambled to the truck bed, each grabbing armfuls of gear. Firas, always faster , sprinted back to the clearing first, his sleeping bag bouncing against his shoulder . Ahdia followed, more measured, carrying her load with both arms. Faraz watched from the corner of his eyes as his children unpacked their things and set up their tent. Firas was struggling with the tent poles, his small hands fumbling with the elastic cords that connected them. His face scrunched in concentration, frustration building as one section kept popping apart. Ahdia had already laid out her sleeping bag inside the half-erected tent. She glanced over at her brother , saw his difficulty , then quietly moved to the other side of the tent to "adjust" her own area. As she did, her hand drifted to the problematic pole section near Firas, steadying it just enough that when he tried again, the pieces clicked together smoothly . "I got it!" Firas exclaimed, not noticing his sister's subtle assistance. Naima caught Faraz's eye and nodded toward Ahdia, who had already retreated to fussing with her sleeping bag, face carefully neutral. "Firas, my king," Naima called out. "Would you gather some kindling for the fire? Your father will help you find the right kind." "Okay!" Firas bounded off into the darkening woods with Faraz. Once they were out of earshot, Naima sat down beside Ahdia, who was meticulously arranging her belongings. "You helped him with the tent poles." It wasn't a question. Ahdia froze for just a moment, then shrugged. "He was getting frustrated." 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 14 "That was kind of you," Naima said gently . She reached out and tucked a strand of hair behind her daughter's ear. "But my sweet, sometimes the kindest thing we can do for people we love is let them struggle a little." Ahdia looked up, confused. "But I didn't want him to feel bad." "I know , my queen. And your heart is so big, wanting to protect your brother ." Naima pulled Ahdia close. "But Firas needs to learn to solve problems on his own. If you always smooth the way for him, he won't grow into the person he's meant to become. Do you understand?" Ahdia was quiet for a long moment, processing. "But what if he can't do it?" "Then he learns something from failing. And that's okay too." Naima kissed the top of her head. "You don't always have to fix things for other people, Ahdia. Sometimes the best thing you can do is just... be there. Let them know they're not alone, even when things are hard." "Even if I could help?" "Even then." Naima smiled. "The world needs your gifts, my darling. But it also needs you to trust others to find their own strength. Can you try to remember that?" Ahdia nodded slowly , leaning into her mother's embrace. By the time Faraz and Firas returned with armfuls of kindling, the fire pit was ready and Naima had started preparing their dinner . Firas proudly displayed his haul, and Faraz made a great show of examining each stick for quality . "Excellent work, my king! You have a natural eye for combustible materials." Firas beamed. With their bellies full after their meals and the darkness of the wood around them embracing the light of their fire, Faraz continued. 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 15 “Every few millennia or so, and not every millennium, if you look into the night sky, and you know what it is that you should be looking for, it will reveal to you that something in the deep nothingness of the universe is at work. And for some unknown reason, that work directly affects our little world, the Earth. And particularly , one of its inhabitants. Using today’ s modern sciences, it has been discovered nearly fifty years ago that it’s not just an alignment of the stars that pave the way for this mysterious effect, but the manner in which they too are affected. Deeper into the cosmos than we as mere mortals can fathom, farther away than even God can see, a giant phenomenon that is blacker than the darkest night and bigger than we can possibly dream… stirs.” Ahdia and Firas were entranced at this. The vaguery of whatever their father was describing only allowed their own minds to fill in the gaps of their understanding with fantastic and wonderful, even frightening imaginings. “What is it?” Ahdia asked in wonder . “It’s called… a black hole,” Faraz revealed. He paused a moment to let that sink in with their thoughts. “A hole?” Firas eventually blurted. “That’ s it?” “Not just any hole, my son,” Faraz said. “This is an astronomical mystery that could hold the answers to all the questions of the universe. But no one knows what’ s inside because once anything gets caught within the massive vortex it creates, nothing escapes. Not the most powerful rockets, not even a ray of light.” “Not even light?” Ahdia asked. “That’ s right, my queen,” Faraz replied. “It will bend a light that is shone too close to it into itself. That is how powerful it is. And for the most part, it just continues doing what a black 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 16 hole does; that is, it spins and devours anything that gets caught in its reach, called its ‘event horizon’. But, every few thousand years here on Earth, something… escapes!” The children gasped at Faraz’ dramatics and Naima smiled at how adorable her babies were. “How? And what is it?” Ahdia asked. She never ceased to amaze and impress Faraz with her curiosity and drive for knowledge, even at such a young age. Just when he thought he couldn’ t be more proud of her, just like that, he was. “No one knows for sure,” Faraz said. “Scientists call it Hawking’ s radiation but they’ve never actually seen it themselves. They merely suppose it based on what they know and feel sure of. They don’t know much about it other than that: plain theory .” “So how do you know , papa?” Ahdia asked. “Oh, didn’ t you know , my sweet?” Naima chimed in. “Your father knows everything! Or so he says.” The children giggled as Faraz smiled and said, “Right you are, mother , father knows it all. No, your father is no world-renowned scientist. I am a humble art and antiquities collector . But like astronomers, I study things that are exceedingly old and contain many stories of our world. And from the studies your mother and I have done in our careers, we’ve learned many things that those eggheads in lab coats at MIT would never come to know even if it flew out of a cave and bopped them on their eggheads. Like the legends of the chosen one, the one that was hidden with the royal guard and the royal tea sets. In fact, your mother and I have unearthed many treasures that all have a connection to this legend, to this idea of a chosen person who, by records in scrolls by prophets and scholars, and in the art of the tea sets, the linens and of course 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 17 paintings and sculptures and such, coincides with the stirrings of the night sky from a place beyond the stars. Some of the interpretations of these artifacts reveal that this chosen one is given immense powers, incomprehensible feats achieved like feeding entire nations who were facing famine or defeating entire armies in moments. One story your mother and I discovered in the art and scrolls was a victory by the chosen one for the king by making the enemy armies freeze in place, unable to move and then made them all disappear!” “Where did they disappear to?” Ahdia asked. “No one knows but some believe that they were not actually made to disappear but were made to never arrive at the battle field in the first place,” Faraz described. “The chosen one of that time was revealed to jealous and covetous nations who wished to possess the chosen one for their own nations. This caused armies to invade the location of the chosen one. Then, in a blink, all who knew of the chosen one suddenly did not have any recollection of where they were and were all no longer within the borders of the chosen one’s nation. What that means remains uncertain but the nearest that I can come to understanding in modern science is the theory of Schrödinger ’s cat.” “All possible things happening all at once,” Ahdia blurted out. Faraz leaned back and focused his sight on his child. He darted his eyes to Naima who was equally stunned. Noticing their dumbfound looks, Firas chimed in, “She heard you talking about it on the phone the other day to the person who sent us here. She thought we were getting a cat.” Naima giggled, “Not in this timeline!” and Faraz continued, “Still very remarkable, my queen! Yes! That is precisely what Schrödinger ’s cat theory means. These chosen ones, because of their powers, would burn out and die very quickly once they received these powers and so a 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 18 guard was always there to protect them, usually a group from the royalty that was in power at the time. But during their times imbued with the power from the cosmos, they would have such an impact on the world that they were revered as gods themselves.” Firas yawned, his head nodding in sleep. It was evidently getting late. Naima gestured to Faraz their sleeping boy and Faraz nodded. "Time for bed, my king and queen." “No, papa,” Ahdia protested, yawning herself. “I want to know more about the black hole.” Naima picked up a sleeping Firas into her arms and carried him into the tent. Faraz did the same but Ahdia was fighting sleep. “How come we can’t see a black hole?” “It’s too far away , it’s too powerful to get close without getting trapped in its pull,” Faraz said as he carried her into the tent. “I want to see it one day,” Ahdia said. “I want to know what’ s inside.” “What if you get sucked in?” Faraz asked as he tucked her into her sleeping bag. "I won't," she said as sleep won her over. “Oh? Well, you are already trapped in one event horizon, my queen,” he said giving her a hug. Ahdia gently laughed before she closed her eyes and he watched her doze off. The next day, while their parents were setting up their equipment on their campsite, Firas and Ahdia were playing their favorite games in the woods nearby . It felt good to Ahdia to breathe clean, clear , open air of the woods and exploring her surroundings. “Red light, green light, one, two, three!” she said and turned from the tree trunk she was facing at Firas who was encroaching on her. He was standing still, suppressing a smile. Earlier , they played hide-and-go-seek. Finding her brother was just a vehicle to checking under rock formations and giant exposed roots of trees, digging through shrubs and looking 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 19 around the canopy of trees, as though Firas was swinging through them on vines. She had to admit, though, he was very good at hiding well. And when she did find him, he would take off like a shot and leave her in his dust trail. After about fifteen minutes of exploring, she realized that when it would be her turn to hide, she wouldn’ t be doing herself any favors by comparing efforts. Changing gears to playing stoplight, in which there was considerably less running involved, there he was, just standing there, and in fact, looking as though he were in mid-movement. “Red light, green light, one, two, three!” she shouted again and quickly turned around to see how much closer Firas was to her. His arms were bent at the crooks, legs in stride but unmoving. What was strange was that he was no closer to her than the previous round. Making note of it, she did another round and again, Firas was unmoved, exactly in the same position. After one more time and Firas again having been completely still, she left the tree she was positioned by and approached him. When she was near him, she saw that his face was equally without life. His eyes were open but he wasn’ t breathing, evident when she put her hand by his nose and mouth to feel for breath. “Firas?” she called, growing fearful. Firas did not respond. A hand jabbed her side from nowhere. Ahdia screamed. And, as was customary between the two of them, Firas howled with laughter . Before Ahdia realized Firas was playing to her paranoia when he quickly unfroze and poked her, he was off like a bolt. 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 20 “You thought you were the chosen one, didn’ t you?” Firas teased. “You thought you could make me disappear?” A flush of rage filled her and she took off running after him, even though she knew there was no way she would be catching him. Firas was always doing that. Not just scaring the bejeezus out of her any chance he got but running, flat-out running at top speed whenever he could because he knew he was good at it. There were enough times that Firas escaped certain consequences, from school, around the neighborhood, on the army base, from their parents, by simply hitting the bricks faster than anyone he came across. Of course, parents would always be there when he eventually came home from any escapade he was on and consequences were as inescapable as the pull from a black hole, but anyone else who weren’ t his legal guardians were lucky if they caught a glimpse of the hand in the cookie jar rather than the cloud impression of himself he left in his wake. Still, he had scared her. In the woods, no less. To her, it was like a fear multiplier . He would pay because, she reasoned, these were the woods, not the vast and winding roads of the subdivision they lived in and it was nearly lunch time. Unless Firas had nature survival skills that she wasn’ t aware of where he could catch his own food to clean and roast over a fire he makes himself, there was only one place he would eventually end up. So instead of chasing him, she ran straight back to where her parents were setting up camp. Revenge would soon be hers. When she arrived, she saw Firas, once again frozen. Seizing the chance, she pounced on him and wrapped her arm around his neck and shoulders. “Get off me!” Firas said, roughly shoving her off. Startled, Ahdia searched her brother for what was going on. “You started it!” "No, Ahdia, stop," Firas said. "Mom and dad. They aren't here." 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 21 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 22