Chapter 1 Caledonia at night. “Good evening and welcome to Carl Tucker Tonight.” One of the largest metropolises in the country . “Caledonia is the third biggest city in the United States. Millions of people live here.” Home to the feared and revered vigilantes, the only team to patrol a major city at night, protecting its citizens from misdeeds, transgressions, delinquency , and general… malfeasance? Felonies and villainy were just more of a professional law enforcement type deal, especially considering what counted as felonies and villainy to the Caledonia Police. Possession, no matter how much, felony . Loitering, no matter that curfews being unconstitutional, villainy . Probable cause, basically whatever they felt it was, grounds for search and seizure. They were all about the neighborhood and making sure the denizens of Caledonia felt safe, often from the uniformed sentinels immune to true justice. Firas hated it. Hated giving what they did a name, a brand, a power he wasn't willing to acknowledge. They were supposed to be shadows, rumors, figments of overactive imaginations. To his chagrin, the rest of the team loved the moniker and adopted it for their unofficial outfit. Someone was posting their exploits for thousands to see, turning them into a movement. 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 2 He'd argued against it during team meetings. "We're supposed to be secret." But the others disagreed: people needed to see someone was fighting back. Hope mattered, even if it came with hashtags. "For a hundred and fifty years, it has been the hub of American commerce. If any one place can say that they helped build this country , it's Caledonia. So we should care what happens here. Unfortunately , what's happening now in Caledonia is almost all bad. In fact, it's a disaster . Crime has been never higher . Arrest rates have skyrocketed. Our fine boys in blue are being pushed to the very ends of their abilities to enforce law and order in this, our city, no more than in the inner city. What's happened to our beautiful Caledonia when our mothers and children can't walk the streets without some gangbanger threatening to bust a ca…" Firas pushed the home button on his phone, pulled the ski mask over his face and smelled the night air. He always wished he had some enhanced sense so he could sniff out a lead or hear the cries for help a mile away and dole out justice. He had to make do with his normal nose but really mostly relied on his police scanner he bought at a pawn shop. “This is Rogue leader . Radio check-check, cop-copy ,” Firas said into a handheld ham radio as he squeezed the call button on its side. “Reading you five-by-five, Rogue leader ,” the voice crackled back. “What’ s your twenty?” “Five-by-five” means the signal has excellent strength and perfect clarity . Firas loved radio jargon. He demanded that they all learn the codes that were standard for all ham radio users. The Go Squad were originally miffed they had homework but eventually appreciated how frickin’ cool they felt when they expertly asked each other where or how they were using jargon instead of speaking as they would on a regular phone call. 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 3 “I’m on the rooftop on State and Telegraph. Any action on the waves tonight?” “Affirmative,” the voice replied. “Radio band talk of an increase in burglary and muggings in the Little Poland neighborhood. Could be worth a patrol.” Firas grinned, his pulse quickening with anticipation. “Loud copy ,” he said, then secured the radio onto his belt. Bolting in the direction leading to Little Poland, which was a good 30 blocks away from where he was, he knew there would be a few gaps between buildings that were tougher than others. He almost loved this part as much as taking on a mugger . The Go Squad were hardly ever caught on camera, any phone footage usually being too dark or blurry to be definitively anything other than outlandish claims for viral attention… or conjecture of the viewer who wanted to believe in something more. The first such broadcast, an excited social media influencer called an encounter with them heroes but were gone without a trace before she could start recording. Anytime they saw themselves in any uploads or mentioned as part of the criminal element in the mainstream news, that’s what they were called. The first such broadcast—an excited social media influencer posting shaky phone footage—called them heroes. Said they appeared from nowhere, stopped a mugging, vanished like ghosts. She’d coined a name for them: The Go Squad. “Because they GO when nobody else will,” she’d explained to her growing follower count, hashtagging every post. #GoSquad. #CaledoniaHeroes. #WhereIsGoSquad. Firas hated defining what they did every night, giving it a name gave it a power he wasn’ t willing to acknowledge. They were always meant to be shadows, rumors, figments of overactive imaginations. The rest of the team felt differently and loved the moniker and adopted it for their unofficial outfit. 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 4 He reached a door vestibule and performed a wall run on its side, going into a kong vault, safety rolling over the industrial air conditioner , then fell down half a story to the landing below . He strode onto the next building over an alley , executed a lache from a scaffolding, diveroll over a stack of lumber from the construction being done on the roof and full sprinted to the building’ s ledge before doing a safety landing onto the building across the alleyway that was a story lower . He knew this terrain intimately , had come to familiarize himself for years during his freerunning training he began when he was a young boy. Doing this blindfolded would be something he knew he could do if he had to, knowing better of course than to actually try. That was strictly reserved for practicing with the others within the confines of the training facility , someone always watching unobstructed and spotting for safety . His heart raced but he wasn’ t winded. The excitement to find some action coursed through his veins. Within seven minutes time, Firas had reached the center of Little Poland, a neighborhood with a four block radius, and as the name would suggest, a place where you can find the best pierogies in the city. During the day, Firas often came here for lunch while working at the Parkour Instructional School that he owned, where he started patrol this night. He would even take this route across the rooftops to get here, for practice and for fun. Breathing heavily , he unclipped his radio and crackled it to life. “This is Rogue leader ,” he announced, “I’m in position.” “Record time, Rogue leader ,” the radio responded. “You in some kind of mood tonight?” “Just feeling it tonight, I guess,” he replied. “Hang tight,” the radio spoke. “Just throw a line in the pond and wait for the nibbles. I’m sure something will come along. A nearby benefit event is just ending.” “What’ s the event?” he asked. 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 5 “Some campaign stop for a politician. What do you care, Rogue leader?” “Just wanted to know the type of crowd to expect.” Firas slumped down on the edge of the building and peered out into the street. Just like Batman, he thought. Or Daredevil. Probably more Daredevil than Batman. No, he decided and thought, I’m my own identity . I have none. That’ s what separates me from those comic book heroes. I’m real. I’m wearing nondescript tactical body armor , pants, utility belt, Lycra ski mask and gloves. All black. No cape. There’ s no distinguishing marks on me. I’m a shadow . Hey, that could be a good superhero name. No, no name. I’m not ‘Shadow ,’ that’s not my name either . I’m just me and nobody will know that. The people will either be saved by me or feel the pain of street justice, depending on which side of the line they are standing. All the same, he liked to imagine this is what Batman or Daredevil experienced on patrol. A woman screamed. He snapped to standing, listening for the direction. "Leave me alone!" The cry came from the distance. Hearing where it was generally coming from, Firas dove down below to the fire escape he was standing above and shimmied down the side of it as quickly as he could. When he landed on the street, he sprinted to where the crime was taking place. Running past an alleyway , he stopped and hid behind the corner of the building. Three men were surrounding a terrified woman. Perfect, he thought. He unclipped his radio and reported, “This is Rogue leader , assault in progress. Alley of Renata’ s Bakery on Grand. Engaging hostiles, over.” “Copy . Be careful, leader ,” the radio acknowledged. Firas crouched and went around the corner to hide behind a dumpster . He could hear them taunting the woman. 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 6 "Come on," a devious voice urged. "We won't bite unless we have to. Just give us what you got." In moments like this, and this was his 64th such engagement since he started doing patrols if his counting was right, he remembered how bad his legs shook the first time. He nearly vibrated on the floor like an electronic tabletop football piece as he yelled timidly at the baddies. This time, it was only a mild shake that he used as a reminder that it was time to get down to business. The three men were cornering the woman and her face was awash with fear. “Okay ,” the voice continued. “Have it your way.” The lead goon shrugged, smiled and stepped towards her to put his hand on her shoulder . The woman, terrified, screamed until Firas appeared behind him. His nerves, knowing that he'd given up the element of surprise in that moment, always got in the way of him delivering an awesome one-liner . He had practiced saying some things in the mirror but felt silly every time. His team discussed this in their meetings, what they should say, if they should say anything at all. Some were much better at it than others. “This ain’t Burger King,” he blurted. The lead goon stopped in place like a record scratch and he and the other two turned to face Firas. “What?” the goon asked. Darn it, Firas thought. “You know . You said, ‘Have it your way,’” he badly imitated. “So I said, Burger King because… nevermind,” he entreated before following up with a devastating elbow shiver across his face that floored the goon standing in front of him. Left and right goon jumped back in surprise, left goon bailing and out of the alley , right goon swinging a hook that 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 7 Firas ducked under before rising up with an uppercut to his chin, knocking the goon off his feet half a foot into the air before crashing down to the pavement. Standing with his two open hands ready in front of his face, ready to parry another attack, Firas checked to see if anyone was getting up to try again. They were scrambling away and were out of sight in seconds. The woman that was being accosted, stunned, slowly regained composure. “Th… thank you,” she said, gratefully . “Don’ t thank me,” Firas responded with his back turned to her so she could not see his eyes. “Just… do me a favor and don’t tell anyone I said ‘This ain’t Burger King,’ and we’re even.” “Uh… okay?” the woman uttered. “What’ s that?” Firas gestured behind her. She turned to face the direction, saw nothing and looked back, not seeing Firas anywhere. She checked in with herself to make certain whether that bizarre encounter actually occurred or if she was dreaming. It was unfortunate enough to be mugged. To be saved by a masked vigilante was implausible. She wondered if that was actually a thing that happened in real life as she walked back to the sidewalk to reenter reality . Once she was out of sight, Firas peeked his head from behind a nearby dumpster to make sure no one was around to see him reemer ge from the shadows. Firas dashed down the alleyway into the darkness and dove behind the obscurity in her line of sight right before she turned back from his distraction. He dusted off his hands and nodded in self-approval for another job well done. Citizen saved, mystique aura preserved, no credit taken. He’d sleep well this night. 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 8 He always wondered how the ninjas and Batman did it in the movies, just disappear after the hero act was done. He considered magician smoke bombs but even then, where does one go? This part of the job was always pretty awkward, so he found it best to just avoid it whenever possible, perform an Irish exit with side of made-you-look. “Come in, leader ,” the radio crackled. Firas popped the radio into his hand and brought it to his face. “Go for Rogue leader ,” he chirped cheerfully . “Status?” the radio requested. “Justice has been meted,” he bragged. “Say again?” the radio said. “Justice has been what, over?” “Meted,” Firas repeated. “Justice’ s been meted.” “You mean ‘met?” “No, ‘meted.’ Look it up,” he flared, squeezing the radio in his hand. The talking part of hero business was really the actual hard part. “Okay , ‘meted,’ copy that, boss. I’ll just assume you mean you’re okay .” “More than,” he assured. “Great. Good job, leader . As for me, I just helped an old lady get her cat down from a really high telephone pole. I’m going to call it a night,” the radio informed. “You’ve earned it, Nightingale,” Firas said. “Nice work tonight, Firas,” the Nightingale said. Firas rolled his eyes, saying, “No first names over comms.” So unprofessional. “Don’ t forget about our dinner plans tonight. No body armor ,” she said. “Aright, aright,” Firas said, getting embarrassed. “See you there.” 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 9 “Signing off,” the voice said. “No better place.” "No better time," Firas responded, letting go of the call button. A moment later, he squeezed it and added, "Thanks, Ruth." 

Vaughn / Go Squad / 10