# Chapter 4

<!-- SOURCE: GoSquad_Book1.epub chapter_04.xhtml — first edition, extracted + MECHANICALLY cleaned (headers/spacing only) 2026-07-26. Measurement-grade quarry, NOT edit-of-record. -->

Ahdia had been watching him breathe for three hours. Not creepy at all, she told herself. Perfectly normal to stare at your brother to make sure his chest keeps moving. Very regular sibling behavior. Ruth had been in and out all night, checking his vitals every twenty minutes with the focus of someone who was either saving a life or documenting a failure. Possibly both. She'd brought that tablet at some point, typing notes between pulse checks, occasionally muttering medical terms that sounded very impressive and meant absolutely nothing to Ahdia. When Firas's eyes finally opened—blurry at first, slowly coming to focus, then sharply seen—Firas almost wished he had died instead of facing his older sister, who was staring at him crossly, probably for bleeding on her bedsheets. "Hey, Ahdia," he groggily croaked. "Good… morning? What time is it?" "Try afternoon," she corrected. "How you feeling, Firas?" He swallowed while closing his eyes, assessing his current physical state. He was in a great deal of pain, as it turned out. "Not bad. Been better, I suppose." Ahdia scoffed, unamused. "I'll bet." Ruth, hearing the banter and the tenor in Ahdia's terse counters, flew in, stopping for a brief second to see that Firas was awake and then glided to his side, taking his hand. "Firas…" she said as tears gathered in her eyes.

"Hey, Nightingale," Firas smiled, mostly just with his eyes. Ahdia was feeling touched at the display so she allowed the lovebirds to goo-goo eye each other for an additional few seconds before interjecting, "So, what's the prognosis, doc? Is he going to make it?" Not breaking eye contact with Firas, Ruth replied, "It's a good sign he's awake. He lost a lot of blood but luckily, you were on hand to provide a transfusion." Firas furrowed his eyebrows and squinted towards his sister, lifting his head to see she was sporting a bandage near the pit of her elbow. He couldn't tell if Ahdia looked uncomfortable or irritated. It was always hard to tell with her. He dropped his head on the pillow and said, "Thanks for the blood." "I'd say, 'anytime,' although I don't want to suggest it's okay for this being some sort of regular occurrence. They have whole-ass buildings called hospitals where we don't have to jerry-rig a blood transfusion using what's on hand. Normal people go to them when they're bleeding like it's going out of style!" she yelled, realizing she had lost her temper. "Yeah, well," he said after he was sure she had let it all out. "I knew I lost a lot of blood and you, sis, were always the emergency plan if I ever found myself in this situation." Ruth checked his vitals again—pulse, temperature, that thing where she pressed two fingers to his wrist and stared at her watch. Very doctor -like. "The treatment's working," she said, more to herself than them. "Cellular repair approximately 1.8 times normal rate. Tissue regeneration visible on basic scans." "That's good, right?" Ahdia asked.

"It's incredible." Ruth's voice had that weird mix of pride and terror. "It's also not nearly enough. At this rate, he'll be stable in a few days instead of dead in a few hours, but full recovery is going to take weeks. Maybe longer ." Firas shifted, winced. "Weeks? I need to—" "You need to stay in bed," Ruth cut him off. Professional voice back. "The treatment kept you alive. It's not a miracle cure. Your body's still healing from massive trauma. You try to go out on patrol before you're ready, you'll undo everything." "But the team—" "Will manage without you. Night Knight's been leading the tactical side for years anyway ." Firas's jaw tightened. Ahdia recognized that look. That was the look he got when someone told him he couldn't do something and he was absolutely going to prove them wrong or die trying. Literally die, in this case. "Firas," Ahdia said quietly. "She saved your life with science fiction medicine. Maybe listen to her?" He sighed. Heavily. The kind of sigh that meant "fine, but I hate it." Ruth’s fingers were flying across her tablet again. Taking notes. Documenting. That’s what researchers did, right? Document everything? “What are you writing?” Ahdia asked. Ruth looked up. “Proof of concept. If this works—if he recovers fully, even slowly—it changes everything I’ve been trying to prove for three years.” “And if he doesn’t recover fully?”

“Then I just proved the treatment has limitations I can’t overcome with the equipment I have access to.” Which, Ahdia thought, was a very science way of saying “I did my best with what I had and hoped it would be enough.” Sounded familiar. Ahdia lowered her brow and pressed her lips together firmly before slowly asking, "Why would you have to plan for this sort of thing?" She saw Ruth open her eyes and mouth slightly wider before turning away. "Because…" Firas began. "… I do things sometimes that things like this might happen." Ahdia scrunched her forehead and braced herself. "What things?" she asked. "Ahdia, we should let him rest…" Ruth defended. "No," Firas objected gently. "It's okay. She helped save my life, she deserves to know ." Ruth stood down as she slowly turned her gaze to Ahdia. "What is going on?" Ahdia asked, suddenly worried. Firas sighed heavily. "Ruth, can you please? I'm really exhausted." "Sure, sweetheart," Ruth agreed and pondered where to start. A few years ago, about a year and a half after your parents disappeared and after Firas opened his freerunning school, he was still feeling an emptiness in his life and no matter what he did, he couldn't fill that void he had inside him, a feeling that was consuming him slowly, more and more, until it got to a point where he felt like he would collapse into himself. Then, one night, he saw someone getting beat up in the park and he said he didn't know what possessed him to get involved, but he did and helped the person who was being attacked. Saved him. But in the

process, he hurt his hand because one of them broke a bottle over him, which he blocked. He ended up at the emergency room of the hospital I work in. I patched him up, sent him on his way, and I didn't think twice about it. But about a week later, he was back, his head gashed open, saying he fell. Another few weeks go by and he's back, this time with cracked ribs. I told him, "You must be the most accident prone man I've ever met." He said, "Or I'm just getting into accidents so I can come back and see you." So corny! But I like corny. And I liked him. I patched him again, sent him on his way and didn't connect with him until the next time he came back, but not because of an injury. He came to ask me out on a date. I said yes. When we were out together, he took me to the Overlook, where we could see the whole city as the sun was setting. He made a picnic, Subway sandwiches and a bottle of wine, but I didn't hold it against him. It was really nice. It was like all of Caledonia was lighting up just for us. But then, suddenly, we were surrounded by a group of men. They were part of the gang that'd been terrorizing Caledonia at the time and they were saying the park was theirs at night, that we had to pay a tax. I was really frightened because there were so many of them, honestly, like five or six guys and Firas stood up, went up to the leader of them, the one that was doing the talking and before I knew it, they were scrambling all around me, going after him. I thought he was dead or at least badly injured for sure but what I saw was Firas moving much faster than any of them, using their weight against themselves and, I swear, it was like watching water move between rocks. I don't know how else to explain it. It was like a flow, like a

dance, and they were being made to look foolish by him for every attack they tried to land on him. Eventually, I worked up the nerve to pick up the wine bottle and smash one of them on the head, so I helped! Firas says that was the moment he fell in love with me. I didn't know it at the moment, but I was falling in love with him watching him take on a whole gang by himself and coming out on top in a matter of seconds. We've been inseparable since. I've even made what I think were helpful suggestions by having him wear body armor when he went out on patrols. After a while, I took lessons at the Parkour Academy, but not just for freerunning, but also Krav Maga and jiujitsu that he taught after hours to the recruits, others he trained individually; only a handful of students who stood out to him during freerunning classes. Eventually, I joined him on some night patrols. And I wasn't the only one. Apparently, the Academy was a great recruiting station and there were plenty of people who felt the same way we did about taking back the city from the criminal element that had been victimizing Caledonia for years. When we had a small group of reliable traceurs, we organized and called ourselves the Go Squad. There are enough of us to take shifts so none of us have to go every night. And, as you can guess, some personalities are more colorful than others. We all took codenames because we only met when Firas introduced us and maintaining our real identities was our best way to protect that life. He said it was the best way to protect ourselves and those we love so they don't get dragged into our messes. And for four years, we've done just that. Kept this secret life to ourselves, stayed in the shadows, watched each other's backs.

There's Night Knight, Gloom Girl, Crimson Sable and Battlea. My codename is Nightingale. We don't reveal anything about our real lives. We don't know each other's real names. In fact, we only recently started showing each other our faces. Firas never took a codename. He thought the whole thing was making a joke of what he started but he didn't stop others as long as we only used it among ourselves and never made the news. That was our first and most important rule: stay secret, stay hidden, never take credit. We, the Go Squad, have talked about why we do this and we all seem to have our different reasons. Night Knight is ex-military, he's revealed that much to us but it's obvious in the way he talks and acts. He says this has been a great outlet for him to put his marine skills to use. He probably suffers from PTSD but he's a great teammate, especially when it comes down to a tussle. Gloom Girl says it helps her depression, Sable had a wife murdered by the gang and that's all we know about him. And Battlea says doing patrols helps her with her anger issues. I do it for all the times gunshot victims hobble their way into the ER or get dropped in our drive and for all the ones we can't save because… well, they never should have been shot to begin with. Oh, that's another rule. No guns. Night Knight still argues for it but he never crosses the line. But really, I do it for him, for Firas. I fell in love with him but I also fell in love with what he does and I fell in love with what I now do. We all have our roles. Obviously, as the trained medic, that's my duty. We have mechanics and engineers… I'm pretty sure Gloom Girl is an exotic dancer because of her footwear and also all the singles she pays with but I can't be sure. And I don't judge her if she is! Aside from Firas, she bankrolls us hardest for gear and supplies. But we all contribute in the ways we can to support each other. And we all throw down with the best of 'em, if need be.

Mostly, we're just helping people, though. We stay on rooftops and fire escapes and keep our eyes and ears open for anyone in trouble. Just last night, I helped an old lady find her cat, but before I did, I stashed my body armor, belt and mask, just looking like a regular citizen dressed in all black at that point, and got her cat down from a telephone pole. It's usually like that for the most part and, honestly, I am grateful for those nights we don't run into the gangs. Because when we do… I feel really bad for them.
